add lua conditionals entry (#2919)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/conditionals/conditionals.md

---
Title: 'Conditionals' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

> Description: 'Conditionals take an expression and evaluate it to `true` or `false`. Code blocks run depending on the outcome of the expression.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Conditionals are used to evaluate statements as true or false.  # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
```

Reviewer: there is no punctuation permitted within the quotes of metadata items

Author: ```suggestion
Description: 'Conditionals are used to evaluate statements as true or false ' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
```

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Conditionals'
  - 'Control FLow'
  - 'Operators'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first

>   - 'learn-lua'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

> **Conditionals** take an expression and evaluate if it’s `true` or `false`. Code blocks run depending on the outcome of the expression. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Conditionals** are used to evaluate statements as `true` or `false`. They can be used to direct the flow of a program by specifying code blocks to run depending on the outcome of the expression. 
```

> The condition can contain logic [operators](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/lua/operators) and [variables](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/lua/variables). The condition can be evaluated as `true` or `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statement or condition can contain logic [operators](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/lua/operators) and [variables](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/lua/variables). 
```

> 

Reviewer: there should be a maximum of one empty line between content

> ![A diagram explaining a control flow based on the validity of different statements.](https://content.codecademy.com/courses/learn-python-control-flow/control-flow.svg)

Reviewer: I believe this image will need to be added to our media folder. Please review the style guide "file hosting" section for details
https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md

Reviewer 2: Think this is out of scope for the internship, could you make note of this in the handoff doc @navea330

> ## If Statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## If Statements

```

Reviewer: there should always be an empty line after a header

> ```lua

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify the reason behind paul's comment here, since `<condition>` and `<code>` aren't part of the Lua language syntax, even though its structured that way, we should used the `pseudo` codeblock styling.

if <condition> then
	<code>
end
```

`if..then` statements run a block of code only when the condition is met. If the condition is `false`, the code block inside the `if` statement does not run. All conditional statements need to have an `end` keyword to close off the statement.

> The following example demonstrates an `if` statement with a `true` condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates an `if` statement with a `true` condition:

```

```lua
a = 13
b = 16

if a < b then
	a = a + 5
end

print(a)

> -- This prints 18 because a WAS less than b, so the code followed through and changed the value of a. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- This prints 18 because a is less than b, so the code within the if statement was run which updates the value of a. 
```

```

> The following code block demonstrates when the condition is now `false`:

Reviewer: add a line break after the sentence

> The following code block demonstrates when the condition is now `false`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code block demonstrates when the condition is now `false`:

```

```lua
a = 8
b = 10

if a==b then
	print(b + a)
end
-- Nothing is printed because a is not equal to b so the code statement was not executed.
```

> ## Else Statements

Author: ```suggestion
## Else Statements

```

> ```lua

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

if <condition> then
	<code>
else
	<code>
end
```

In the event that the first condition is `false`, when there’s a subsequent `else` statement, the `else` statement will execute instead. Think of the `else` as an “if all else fails” plan. The `else` statement **must** go at the end and does not have a condition.

```lua
isNightTime = false

> if < isNightTime > then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if isNightTime then
```

	print("Good night!")
else
	print("Good morning!")
end
-- This statement prints "Good morning!" because the if condition evaluated to false.
```

> ## ElseIf Statements

Author: ```suggestion
## ElseIf Statements

```

> ```lua

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

if <condition> then
	<code>
elseif <condition> then
	<code>
else
	<code>
end
```

> `elseif` statements are similar to `else` statements but they can be used to create multiple **pathways** instead of an either/or format. You can have multiple `elseif` statements, each with its own condition, but the final statement has to be an `else` statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`elseif` statements are similar to `else` statements but they can be used to create multiple pathways instead of an either/or format. You can have multiple `elseif` statements, each with its own condition, but the final statement has to be an `else` statement.
```

Is pathways a lua key term? I don't see anything to that effect. If not, we should remove the bolding on the term.

Author: It's not. I had bolded it because during my 1:1 with Jiwon we thought that there might've been a better word instead of pathways but I couldn't find one. I had bolded it as something to look back at when there was a better word.

Author: ```suggestion
`elseif` statements are similar to `else` statements but they can be used to create multiple actions instead of an either/or format. You can have multiple `elseif` statements, each with its own condition, but the final statement has to be an `else` statement.
```
